After growing in popularity in Japan for many years, Ruby is now world famous
for "[[Ruby on Rails]]". It makes building web applications fun and enjoyable.
There are two popular versions of Ruby: 1.8 and 1.9. As of April 2011, Ruby
1.9.2 is getting pushed forward as the new stable version. In my experience,
1.9.x is MUCH faster than 1.8.x! There are some transitioning issues, and many
applications still only run on 1.8 and not 1.9 at this time.

There are some very impressive Ruby software applications on the rise. This is
very intriguing to me, and I wonder how much of it has to do with Ruby, the
ability of the developers, as well as their passion for developing quality apps.
Regardless, its very impressive.

Ruby is an incredibly elegant language. It is consistent, predictable, and uniform.

### Really Cool Ruby Stuff

* [[/ruby/Ruby on Rails]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby Metaprogramming]]
* [[/Sinatra]]
* [[/Ruby/Ruby Rack]]
* [[/Unicorn]]
* [[/ruby/Simple Ruby FastCGI / DBM Script]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby FastCGI Timeout]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby Blocks]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby erb Templates]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby Objects]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby Class Override Example]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby Rake]]

### Ruby Deployment Tools
* [[/ruby/Vlad]]
* [[/ruby/Heroku]]
* [[/ruby/Ruby Installers]]

#### MagLev

MagLev is an implementation of the Ruby programming language, plus oh-so-much
more. It runs as a daemon service, and includes a persistent object cache - in
other words, its like NoSQL for objects.

Let's say with Ruby on Rails, a developer wants to create a publishing platform
for social networking. Each visitor could have a profile stored in a JSON
document. This could be implemented any number of ways, but with MagLev, (if
I understand correctly), when the Ruby object is created, it can be
persistently stored as-is, without the need to marshal it, save it to a file,
store it in a database, or in something like MongoDB. MagLev will just handle
it for you.

As Monty Williams of VMWare puts it, "I don't think of MagLev only as a Ruby VM
that has an integrated NoSQL database. I think of MagLev as a NoSQL database
that uses Ruby for its data manipulation language."

Sounds like Ruby embedded in MongoDB! Actually I have no idea if MagLev is
anything like MongoDB, but its the NoSQL storage service I have the most
experience with.
