### Drupal Summary
Drupal is a [[PHP]] powered, open source web application framework and content management system.

### Drupal on [[Debian]]
I'm trying to install Drupal on [[Debian]]. First I installed drupal6 with apt-get and chose to configure the database with db-common. Then I went to /drupal6/install.php and chose to install in English. Then I ran into these errors:

<pre class="sh_error">
user warning: You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near ') ORDER BY fit DESC LIMIT 0, 1' at line 1 query: SELECT * FROM menu_router WHERE path IN () ORDER BY fit DESC LIMIT 0, 1 in /usr/share/drupal6/includes/menu.inc on line 315.
user warning: You have an error in your SQL syntax; check the manual that corresponds to your MySQL server version for the right syntax to use near ') ORDER BY fit DESC LIMIT 0, 1' at line 1 query: SELECT * FROM menu_router WHERE path IN () ORDER BY fit DESC LIMIT 0, 1 in /usr/share/drupal6/includes/menu.inc on line 315.
</pre>

Turns out this was caused by my browser having cookies disabled. I enabled them and the installation worked, but I did have to drop all the tables from the database first.

### Multi-Sites
One of the first things that struck me about Drupal was that it was seemingly designed to only support one site per installation. However, the developers have actually done what appears to be a bang-up job supporting multiple sites with only one code base. Yay!

It is definitely understandable that each site would require a separate database, though in my humble opinion, not optimal.

### Drupal Modules

Drupal modules can perform some very amazing feats. Also, I have to say I'm impressed with how well the modules are made!

Here are some modules I'm interested in pushing to the limits:

* [[Drupal Views]]
* [[Drupal CCK]]
* [[Drupal Version Control API]]
* [[Drupal Wysiwyg API]]

### Drupal Themes

#### BASIC Starter Theme

I use the BASIC starter theme. I like the way it is described as a starter theme, since it is ready and supposed to be customized and changed. Here is the installation part of the README.txt file:

<pre>
Installation

- Download Basic from http://drupal.org/project/basic
- Unpack the downloaded file and place the Basic folder in your Drupal installation under
  one of the following locations:

    * sites/all/themes
    * sites/default/themes
    * sites/example.com/themes

- Log in as an administrator on your Drupal site and go to
  Administer > Site building > Themes (admin/build/themes) and make Basic the default theme.

- if you want to change the name of the theme from 'basic' to another name like 'mytheme',
follow these steps (to do BEFORE enabling the theme) :

        - Edit basic.info and change the name, description, project (can be deleted)
        - In basic.info, replace the following instances of "basic_" to "mytheme_"
    - [basic_zen_tabs]
    - [basic_wireframe]
    - [basic_block_editing]
    - [basic_rebuild_registry]
    - [basic_breadcrumb]
    - [basic_breadcrumb_separator]
    - [basic_breadcrumb_home]
    - [basic_breadcrumb_trailing]
    - [basic_breadcrumb_title]

        - In template.php change each iteration of 'basic' to 'mytheme'
        - In theme-settings.php change each iteration of 'basic' to 'mytheme'
        - rename the theme folder to 'mytheme'
        - rename basic.info to mytheme.info
</pre>

### Drupal 7

<div style="flrt"><iframe src="http://rcm.amazon.com/e/cm?t=inforbanki-20&o=1&p=8&l=as1&asins=1430228598&fc1=000000&IS2=1&lt1=_blank&m=amazon&lc1=0000FF&bc1=000000&bg1=FFFFFF&f=ifr" style="width:120px;height:240px;" scrolling="no" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" frameborder="0"></iframe></div>

As of December 2010, Drupal 7 is very close to an official release. Its going to be amazing.

### See Also
* [[Drush]]
* [[CMS]]
* [[Joomla]]

### Links
* http://www.docunext.com/blog/cgi-bin/movabletype/mt-search.cgi?blog_id=250&tag=drupal&limit=20
* http://drupal.org/getting-started/6/install/multi-site

