### Summary
FastCGI is an alternate [[CGI]] methodology which uses persistent processes.

### [[Apache FastCGI]]
* [[mod_fcgid]] - I really like this implementation, but I don't always want to use [[Apache]]. In the cases when I don't, I use [[Spawn-fcgi]].

### FastCGI Capable Software
* [[Ruby]] - [[Example Ruby FastCGI Script]]
* [[Trac]]
* [[SVN::Web]] ([[Perl]])
* [[PHP]]
* [[dbrs2xml]]
* [[GD over FastCGI]]

I'm probably going to make a lot of FastCGI/[[XML]] applications in the near future.

### [[Web Servers]] which support FastCGI
* [[NGINX]]
* [[Apache2]] via [[mod_fcgid]] or [[mod_fastcgi]]
* [[Hiawatha]]
* [[Cherokee]]
* [[Caudium]]
* [[Lighttpd]]
* [[Pronghorn]]
* [[Roxen]]

### [[CGI]] to FastCGI Gateway
* [[cgi-fcgi]]

### Debugging FastCGI [[C]] Software
I was trying to make [[GD over FastCGI]] run under [[mod_fcgid]] but kept getting errors like this:
<pre>
..exit(communication error), get unexpected signal 11..
Premature end of script headers:...
[Thu Jun 18 23:32:01 2009] [warn] mod_fcgid: Read data error, fastcgi server has close connection
</pre>
I was ready to pull my hair out. Even though its not totally free, I decided to try [[mod_fastcgi]] but got similar errors:
<pre>
[Thu Jun 18 23:57:37 2009] [warn] FastCGI: (dynamic) server "/usr/lib/cgi-bin/blah.fastcgi" restarted (pid 3919)
[Thu Jun 18 23:58:29 2009] [error] [client 192.168.1.240] FastCGI: incomplete headers (0 bytes) received from server "/usr/lib/cgi-bin/blah.fastcgi"
[Thu Jun 18 23:58:29 2009] [warn] FastCGI: (dynamic) server "/usr/lib/cgi-bin/blah.fastcgi" (pid 3919) terminated due to uncaught signal '11' (Segmentation fault)
</pre>
So then I tried the examples provided by the writers of the FastCGI protocol - and still got the errors! Ack.

Then I finally found someone who fixed the example code: Richard Levenberg. THANK YOU!!! Turns out the example code had a problematic environment variable reference. With that fixed, the example code ran, so I had hope. I then found a suggestion somewhere that suggested trying to use [[gdb]] to debug and find the segmentation fault. Well that worked out great and I finally got it working.

I'm sort of surprised that I was able to get [[GD over FastCGI]] working with [[spawn-fcgi]] but not [[mod_fcgid]]. And as good as [[spawn-fcgi]] is, I like that [[mod_fcgid]] can terminate idle processes, and start new ones as necessary.

### See Also
* [[Apache FastCGI]]
* [[CGI]]
* [[mod_fcgid]]
* [[NGINX]]

### Links
* http://www.nabble.com/FreeBSD-4.7,-mod_fastcgi-2.4.2,-uncaught-signal-%2711%27-td6599647.html

