Installing irm, so-so. Admin, admin.

Clean out /var/www/

Installing request-tracker-3.6, and rt3.6-apache2.
Debian RT Install

Now a testing machine for various packages: rt, asset-tracker, dotproject.

June 29th, 2006

New Lewis Staging Server

This is the development server - just like houdini?, but only for testing purposes.

To setup firewall, copied /etc/init.d/firewall, /etc/conf.d/firewall and /sbin/accounting-report over to lewis from houdini. Then I edited conf.d/firewall with correct ip's. The I had to emerge ulogd, which then also added iptables.

April 2006
Removing all websites from Lewis

### August 26, 2004
Setup the server to have a bandwidth limiter, both on Apache and on the kernel. It worked excellent. More about this in Apache 2 Notes?.

### August 30, 2004
Good, true to its cause, Lewis was tested for multi-user activities and seriously crashed and burned. What I did was to change the file permissions on all the files, which seriously debilitated everything.

### August 31, 2004
Planning on going to Andover to fix this machine, will the minimal CD and a monitor and keyboard to install the base files again. Should bring my laptop and print out a copy of the Gentoo handbook just in case a complete rebuild is needed. I should probably plan to do that. Need to then also being a copy of all the other settings, including the sheet of configuration options from this wiki. Furthermore I'm going to install user-mode-linux, so that I can test out everything, as well as isolate user processes and tasks.

### September 1, 2004
Had to visit servers twice today. Ouch! First of all, I somehow broke the fix I made yesterday by unmerging acl. Then I fixed it by untarring the stage into / and rebooting. This was not enough, because when I tried to use merge again it seriously died on me. So I fixed it the way I fixed it the first time, by formatting /sda3 and reinstalling the stage, then configuring it up, restarting, checking to make sure it worked, then leaving. Now I plan to emerge the same packages, update the kernel, and hope for the best!

### September 3, 2004
Lewis is much healthier now. When doing a depclean, it again wanted to uninstall acl, but instead I upgraded attl and acl at the same time. It was cool and depclean was satisfied. Now I've since emerged curl, samba, mysql, apache, htmltidy, and... I would like to have a list of stuff installed. I believe that the bandwidth throttle limiter via the kernel is working, but I still need to configure the per file throttle.

### December 27, 2004
Ran a glsa-check and found that samba needed to be updated. Tried to test it out, wasn't working at all, then remembered that nice Com Cast blocks port 139. Argh. Worked when tunneled through. Edited the smb.conf file to block all access except for local (me), RPL, and DAS.

### April 6, 2005
Serving all web sites from Lewis, and am using VLOG to customize logging facilities.

### April 7, 2005
Added smbfs to kernel, used kernel from last config

### August 15, 2005

* Had an outage on Apache last night! ARGH. This appears to have been caused by the log files. Though I don't see how that could be, since I am using VLOGs. Trying to figure out if a malicious intent was involved by an outside party.

### August 16, 2005

* emerge -a tiff man-pages vixie-cron baselayout samba
* Realized that the make.conf page had all the use vars removed so I added the basics and re-emerged everything, then was able to connect via samba