Postgres is a relational database management system. It is ACID compliant and
has support for foreign keys.

It is popular with accounting packages such as LedgerSMB, TinyERP, and SQL
Ledger.

I'm not too familiar with Postgres, as I've had a lot more experience with
[[/MySQL]]. One thing I like about Postgres is that it is totally open source,
whereas MySQL is dual licensed, and the InnoDB backend which supports
foreign keys is owned by Oracle.

### Installing Postgres on Ubuntu / Debian

    apt-get install postgresql
    apt-get install phpPgAdmin

I followed two more steps - I read the postgresql + phppgadmin DEBIAN.Readme
docs and added password capability to the postgres server, then disabled the
extra security setting in phppgadmin config.inc.php file as described in the
phppgadmin docs.

### Examples

    CREATE TABLE wwwneofilmzcom_config (
      conf_name varchar(255) NOT NULL default '',
      conf_value text,
      PRIMARY KEY  (conf_name)
    );

### Big News I am using Postgres

I recently switched to using Postgres because it offers transaction support
without gobbling up tons of memory like InnoDB can, making it more appealing for
my virtual instances. I'm glad I did, because I've since learned about the
awesome Hstore feature, as well as PL/V8.

#### Adding a Role

    sudo su
    su postgres
    psql
    postgres=# CREATE ROLE app WITH SUPERUSER LOGIN;

#### Creating a Database

    CREATE DATABASE newdb OWNER me;
    
### Postgres Extensions

#### HStore

HStore could be compared to a giant hash - complete with keys and values. The
very interesting part about this is that with postgres its possible to search
within the values. This makes it quite the contender to [[/NoSQL]] solutions like
[[/nosql/MongoDB]].

#### PL/V8

This is super cool - the [[/Google]] V8 engine plugged into Postgres - it can be
used to create stored procedures. Just imagine - this supercharges Postgres into
an API service for client-side web apps. MASSIVE!
