"dar - Disk ARchive: Backup directory tree and files"

This tool sounds awesome. It can compress and encrypt files for backups and
retrieval.

### Dar Compression Options

Unlike Tar, dar compresses each of the files in an archive independently.
This has several advantages, not the least of which files can be selectively
included or excluded from the compression process. For example, there is no need
to re-compress *.gz or *.jpg (or PNG or GIF files), they are already
compressed; though txt, cnf, and log files compress very well.

Example:

    dar -z -c /var/archives/home/exampleuser -Z "*.gz" -X "*.jpg" /home/exampleuser

The above instructs dar to create (-c) an archive (likely named
exampleuser.1.dar) in /var/archives/home of the /home/exampleuser folder, to
compress it (-z), and to exclude files with gz and jpg extentions (-Z "*.gz" -X
"*.jpg").

### Dar Encryption Options

Dar uses external libraries to encrypt and decrypt files, and I think it can
only encrypt / decrypt entire archives. I had hoped it was similar to the
compression mechanism, where one could selectively encrypt files, but apparently
there are some disadvantages to doing it that way. Instead, to support selective
retrieval of files from an encrypted archive, the archive is encrypted in chunks
(whose size can be specified).

Dar supports the blowfish, aes, twofish, serpent and camellia ciphers for strong
encryption and scrambling for essentially obfuscation (for some that may be good
enough); blowfish is the default - from what I've heard it is fast and strong.

Encryption example:

    dar -K blowfish:t0ps3krit -z -c /var/archives/home/exampleuser -Z "*.gz" -X "*.jpg" /home/exampleuser

The above would encrypt the archive with the blowfish algorithm using the key
t0ps3krit.

### Dar Slicing

Another cool option of dar is the ability to easily slice up archives at any
size to transfer the backup to media of a specific size.

Slicing example:

    dar -s 4G -z -c /var/archives/home/exampleuser -Z "*.gz" -X "*.jpg" /home/exampleuser

The above would slice the archive into 4G pieces.

### Incremental Backups with Dar

Dar can also do incremental backups, but first it must make a master version,
from which subsequent backups shall be made.

First time incremental example:

    dar -z -c /var/archives/home/exampleuser.0 -Z "*.gz" -X "*.jpg" /home/exampleuser

Just a regular backup, but above I've added "0" to the archive name, to indicate
its the beginning of something.

Follow-up example:

    dar -z -c /var/archives/home/exampleuser.1 -Z "*.gz" -X "*.jpg" /home/exampleuser -A /var/archives/home/exampleuser.0

