### Movable Type Summary
Moveable Type is a [[blog]] engine written by [[Six Apart]]. It was released under the [[GPL]] in December 2007.  My favorite thing about it is that it renders static output.

### Movable Type and [[FastCGI]]
I'm trying to get my fork of Movable Type, [[Mutable Times]], to work with [[mod_fcgid]]. So far I keep getting errors. Apparently not all the cgi scripts will work with fastcgi period, but I think mt.cgi will.

I just installed:
* libfcgi-perl
* libfcgi-procmanager-perl
* libcgi-fast-perl

<pre>
apt-get install libfcgi-perl libfcgi-procmanager-perl libcgi-fast-perl
</pre>

Yes, those packages worked for me with this type of configuration:
<pre>
<Directory /var/www/public/a/dev/mutabletimes/>
    Options ExecCGI FollowSymLinks
    Allow from 192.168
    AddHandler CGI-Script .cgi
    <FilesMatch "^mt(?:-(?:comments|search|tb|view))?\.cgi$">
        SetHandler fcgid-script
    </FilesMatch>
</Directory>
</pre>

I've found the following [[mod_fcgid]] configuration to work OK as well:
<pre>
<IfModule mod_fcgid.c>
    AddHandler    fcgid-script .fcgi .php
    IPCConnectTimeout 20
    ProcessLifeTime 300
    MaxRequestsPerProcess 100
</IfModule>
</pre>

After a few months of using Movable Type with [[FastCGI]], I gave up and reverted back to regular [[CGI]]. I just got too many errors. I believe newer versions of Movable Type have better support for it. I hope so!

### FastCGI with MTOS 4.25
I'm [http://code.sixapart.com/trac/movabletype/changeset/3328 backporting these MTOS fcgi] changes to 4.23 (which [[Debian]] has). Seems to work alright so far. I like this because I like to have higher limits for other fcgi processes, but quick restarts for MTOS - I'm going to try and find a good number.

Here are two new configuration options:
<pre>
+            'FastCGIMaxTime'  => { default => 60 * 60 }, # 1 hour
+            'FastCGIMaxRequests' => { default => 1000 }, # 1000 requests
</pre>

UPDATE: MovableType 4.3 has been released [[FastCGI]] is working great.  Only issue I have is with plugins and updates, which require a server restart for new plugins or database updates to be recognized.

### My Experience with and Review of Movable Type
At first, MTOS felt a little clunky. It was slower and had a lot of seemingly unnecessary complexity. After giving it a few months of use, I absolutely love it. Six Apart has done a great job. I plan to use Movable Type for a long time into the future!

Of course I have some recommendations:
* Add a link to the edit template page from the template refresh confirmation page. I find myself refreshing templates, then returning to templates, then editing templates way too often; let's skip that middle step.
* Use XSL instead of mtml, or at least offer the choice.
* Give more flexibility with mt-static.
* Uploaded asset templates.
* Fix the Wordpress import mechanism. See [http://www.informedblogging.com/blog/2009/06/regexp-pattern-for-importing-wordpress-xml-into-movabletype.html Regexp Pattern for Importing Wordpress XML into MovableType]

Hope someone is listening!

### Movable Type 4.3+
Movable Type version 4.3 was a major speed increase from previous versions. [[FastCGI]] support improved substantially.

### Movable Type Errors
* [[Movable Type Background Publishing Error]]
* [[Movable Type Memcached Error]]

### MovableType Plugins
There are some really terrific plugins out there. Byrne Reese ([[Majordojo]] has written some of my favorites:

* [[Movable Type Bob the Rebuilder]]
* [[Movable Type Autolink]]
* Movable Type Send to Process Queue

More good ones:

* [[Movable Type Post Office]]
* [[Movable Type Custom Asset Markup]]
* [[Movable Type Media URLs]]
* [[Movable Type Tidings]]

### Extra Perl Modules
* [[Cache::Memcached::GetParserXS]]
* [[Cache::Memcached::Fast]]

### See Also
* [[Movable Type Data Model]]
* [[Melody]]

### External

<ul><li><a href="http://www.informedblogging.com/">Informed Blogging</a></li></ul>

* http://www.mirrors.docunext.com/websvn/movabletypeopensource
* http://github.com/docunext/docunext-mtos-templates

