OpenSSL can use different engines, such as the [[Via C7]] [[Padlock]].

With the help of [[OCF Linux]], OpenSSL can use the [[AES]] acceleration block present in the [[AMD Geode LX]] [[CPU]].

### [[PKI]]
Public Key Infrastructure - share your public key, protect your private key.
* [[RSA]]

### x509 Certificates
Along with PKI comes the concept of trust. Certificates can help bridge trust between disparate parties. Thankfully openssl helps create certificates! I use the following method on [[debian]] systems:
* edit /etc/ssl/openssl.cnf
* use /usr/lib/ssl/misc/CA.pl to generate a request, then sign the request
* I created my own certificate signing authority awhile back, and am trying to continue to use that

The folks at [[cacert]] have got a good idea going, but the web of trust is still a ways away in my humble opinion. I hope to start using a certificate to sign open source software packages someday.

UPDATE: Thanks to [[OpenVPN]], I've again revisited OpenSSL and [[PKI]]. The openssl.cnf that the easyRSA scripts use has these parts commented out for [[OpenVPN]], but [[Firefox]] requires them for Certificate Authorities:

<pre>
# Key usage: this is typical for a CA certificate. However since it will
# prevent it being used as an test self-signed certificate it is best
# left out by default.
keyUsage = cRLSign, keyCertSign

# Some might want this also
nsCertType = sslCA, emailCA
</pre>

To import the certificate into [[Iceweasel]], I used:
<pre>
certutil -A -t "CT,CT,CT" -n "Savonix Corporation CA" -i savonix/operations/network/pki/keys/ca.crt -d .mozilla/firefox/10p23dd5.default/
</pre>



Into [[Google Chrome]]:
<pre>
certutil -d sql:$HOME/.pki/nssdb -A -t "CT,C,C" -n "Savonix Corporation CA" -i savonix/operations/network/pki/keys/ca.crt
</pre>

Into /etc/ssl/certs/
<pre>
#sudo cp savonix/operations/network/pki/keys/ca.crt /etc/ssl/certs/Savonix_Corporation_CA.crt
#cd /etc/ssl/certs/
#ln -s Savonix_Corporation_CA.crt `openssl x509 -hash -noout -in Savonix_Corporation_CA.crt`.0
#openssl verify -CApath /etc/ssl/certs/Savonix_Corporation_CA.crt
/etc/ssl/certs/Savonix_Corporation_CA.crt: OK
</pre>

Thanks: http://gagravarr.org/writing/openssl-certs/others.shtml#ca-openssl

See also [[Security Certificates]].

### Creating Certificates
* [[CA.pl]]
* [[Old SSL Certificate Creation Notes]]

### Links
* http://code.google.com/p/chromium/wiki/LinuxCertManagement
* http://www.mozilla.org/projects/security/pki/nss/tools/certutil.html
* http://sandbox.rulemaker.net/ngps/m2/howto.ca.html

