Apache is a great web server. In fact, its my favorite web server. I also like
[[/Lighttpd]], [[/NGINX]], and [[/thttpd]], but for me Apache 2.2 does the job
well.

### Apache Installation
I use [[/debian]], so installation is a snap:

    apt-get install apache2-mpm-worker

I use the worker mpm because I use [[/FastCGI]] to get [[/PHP]] functionality.
I prefer the Apache Worker MPM over the prefork mpm for many reasons, but mainly
because I've simply had better experiences with it. In my experience, the
prefork mpm uses a lot of memory and takes awhile to restart. Besides that,
using the php5-cgi is a piece of cake with mod_fcgid. With that setup, you
can also use [[/Python]], [[/Perl]], and other scripting languages quite easily
with a shebang.

I manually compiled and installed the SVN trunk of Apache 2.3:

[[/Apache/Apache 2.3 on Debian]]

#### Prefork versus Worker
I was surprised to learn today that the prefork package uses a lot less memory
than the worker module. The difference is very large. After a few weeks of using
prefork, I'm haven't had any problems with it so I'm going to stick with it.

### Apache Optimization
* [[/Apache/Apache Configuration]]
* No [[/DNS]] lookups
* Quick keepalive timeout, less than 2
* [[/Caching]]
* Only load the modules actually needed
* Put a reverse proxy cache, like [[/Varnish]] or [[/NGINX]], in front

### Apache Modules

#### Rewrites
* [[/Apache/Database Powered Virtual Hosts]]
* [[/Apache/Why I like Hashes for Apache]]
* [[/Apache/Nice Apache Rewrite Text by Dirk Brockhausen]]

#### FastCGI
* [[/Apache/Apache FastCGI]]

#### WSGI
* [[/Apache/Apache 2 and mod_wsgi]]

#### Caching
* [[/Apache/Apache 2.2 htcacheclean]]

#### Proxy
* [[Apache 2.2 Proxy Caching Configuration]]
* [[/Apache/mod_extract_forwarded]]
