The [[Debian]] package [[php-cache-lite]] is also a [[PEAR]] package, so it should be a fairly simple .deb.

### The Disassembly Process
<pre>
apt-get source php-cache-lite
cd php-cache-lite-1.7.2/debian
</pre>

Here we find the following files:
<pre>
changelog  compat  control  copyright  dirs  rules  watch
</pre>

and the contents of...

'''rules'''
<pre>
#!/usr/bin/make -f

include /usr/share/cdbs/1/rules/debhelper.mk
include /usr/share/cdbs/1/class/pear.mk
</pre>

'''control'''
<pre>
Source: php-cache-lite
Section: web
Priority: optional
Maintainer: Charles Fry <cfry@debian.org>
Build-Depends: dh-make-php (>= 0.1.1), debhelper (>= 5), cdbs
Depends: phpapi-20041030 | phpapi-20050606 | phpapi-20020918
Standards-Version: 3.7.2

Package: php-cache-lite
Architecture: all
Description: Fast and lite data cache system
 A lite cache system optimized for high traffic websites that caches
 data on disk and/or in memory. Cached data is accessed through a
 user-defined cache ID (key). Can ensure various levels of safety in
 the face of concurrency, even when the cache is backed by a
 distributed file system.
 .
  Homepage: http://pear.php.net/package/Cache_Lite/
</pre>

'''dirs'''
<pre>
usr/share/php
</pre>

The file compat contains only "5" so I imagine that means [[PHP]] version 5, and is used by dh-make-php.

'''watch'''
<pre>
version=3
http://pear.php.net/package/Cache_Lite/download /get/Cache_Lite-([\d.]+)\.tgz debian svn-upgrade
</pre>

I don't think I've ever seen a watch file before. Hmmm. Not sure what that's about.

Besides that, it looks like the rest of the package contents are simple the source itself - the Cache_Lite-1.7.2 folder and its contents, and the [[PEAR]] package.xml file.

