[[Ruby]] on Rails is a web application development framework.

### Components

#### ActiveRecord

ActiveRecord is a ORM for Ruby on Rails. It is written in Ruby and maps database result sets to object classes.
Internally, it contains some interesting ruby-style code, including extensive and clever use of method_missing and define_method. This metaprogramming tactic creates many, many handy-dandy helpers, including methods along the lines of "find_one_by_name('myname')". Also referred to as lazy-loading, this includes an optimization to only use method_missing (an "expensive" last-resort) the first call to the helper - after that, its a real method that doesn't need define_method anymore.

#### ActiveRelation

AREL is short for Active Relation, and its a major upgrade to Active Record. In my opinion, AREL is one of the main reasons why Rails 3 is such an amazing improvement on Rails 2.

On the surface, AREL isn't much different than the query interface for Rails 2, but when queries start to get a little complicated, the benefits become apparent. For example, with AREL, it becomes possible to chain together scopes. AREL's ability to chain scopes isn't that impressive on their own, but the fact that it combines the scopes prior to any SQL being generated or run is spectacular.

### Installation

#### Running Rails on Apache with mod_fcgid

<pre>
<VirtualHost *:80>
  ServerAdmin it@example.com
  DocumentRoot /home/app/app.git/current/public
  ServerName app.example.com
  Options +FollowSymLinks +ExecCGI
  FCGIWrapper /home/app/app.git/current/public/dispatch.fcgi .fcgi
  DefaultInitEnv RAILS_ENV production
  DefaultInitEnv RAILS_GEM_VERSION "2.3.11"
  RewriteEngine On
  RewriteCond /home/app/app.git/current/public/%{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
  RewriteRule ^(.*)$ /dispatch.fcgi [QSA,L]

  <Directory /home/app/app.git/current/public>
      AllowOverride all
      Options +FollowSymLinks +ExecCGI
      Order allow,deny
      Allow from all
  </Directory>
</VirtualHost>
</pre>

See also: [[Ruby Installers]]