LDAP stands for lightweight directory access protocol.

It is sometimes said that ldap is good for data that is read more often than
written or updated. I agree, for hostnames, users, and other common data that
is stored in files, ldap is a good choice in my opinion.

#### Tips
I originally setup OpenLDAP with [[MySQL]], aka [[Backsql]], which was a fairly
herculean effort. Now for learning sake I'm just using the default database
type - HDB.

I finally got to login as "admin" with [[phpLDAPadmin]]. To do so, I had to
change the login attr to "cn".

#### LDAP ACLs
As far as I can tell, there are different ACL issues when dealing with a public
[[LDAP]] server accessible via the internet used for lower security data, such
as lists of relay recipients for [[Postfix]] or authentication information for
[[Dovecot]].

In my experience, the hardest thing to figure out with LDAP ACLs was the order
in which they appear. For example, if you have a rule which gives "* read
privileges, it won't be updated with a write rule later on, so you have to be
cognizant of that.

I'm pretty happy tonight because I was able to get [[DJabberd]] to not only
authenticate against LDAP, but also register new users! To make sure that the
user with write access for jabber accounts doesn't have write access for the
entire directory, I used ACLs.

<pre>
access to dn.subtree="ou=jabbers,dc=example,dc=com"
        by dn="cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com" write
        by dn="uid=admin,ou=jabbers,dc=savonix,dc=com" write
        by anonymous auth
        by self write
        by * read

# The admin dn has full write access, everyone else
# can read everything.
access to *
        by dn="cn=admin,dc=example,dc=com" write
        by * read

</pre>

I had to put the jabbers subtree above the default rule. It makes sense to me to
think about this like a firewall ruleset.

#### LDAP Servers
#### OpenLDAP
OpenLDAP is one of the most prominent open source LDAP servers available. The
server binary is named "slapd".

#### TinyLDAP
The TinyLDAP CVS repository doesn't include any specific licensing details, so
I asked on the list.

Felix wrote back:

 > I was going to make it GPL as soon as I release 1.0, but never got around to doing that :-)
 > Consider it GPL.
 > Felix

#### 389

389 Directory Server is an LDAP server from Red Hat. I originally thought it was coded in Java, but the "ds" module from the git repository has C source files.

#### Ldapsearch

Ldapsearch is helpful for general LDAP queries:

    ldapsearch -x

I've found "getent" to be priceless for dealing with nsswitch.conf settings:

    getent passwd
    getent shadow
    getent group

* [[Setup a debian machine to use an LDAP server for NSS hosts]]
* [[Setup a debian machine to use an LDAP server for Authentication]]
* [[Setup a CentOS machine to use an LDAP server for Authentication]]
* [[Setup a gentoo machine for LDAP authentication]]
* [[LDAP Replication]]
* [[Planning an LDAP Directory]]
* [[FreeBSD and pam ldap]]
* [[ldap-utils]]
* [[phpLDAPadmin]] / [[lwat]]
* [[ldapscripts]]
* [[LDAP SASL]]
* [[LDAP TLS]]
* [[My Notes on using LDAP for Linux Authentication]]
* [[My notes on replacing /etc/hosts with LDAP]]