Berkeley Internet Name Daemon or something like that. While I used to think it was too complicated ("Its beyond me - I prefer [[MyDNS]]. I do use bind-tools from debian a lot though, [[dig]] is an especially handy tool."), I'm now a very big fan - especially since it returns glue records for origin zones with external name servers, as well as has support for [[GeoIP]] [[DNS]]!

### [[GeoIP]]
There are a bunch of ways to do this:

* CIDR access control lists - this was my first try; it worked, but then I read [http://phix.me/geodns/ this] which explained the data structures of the MaxMind DB versus the built-in BIND acls
* Patching and compiling BIND - I tried this, only to realize that [[debian]] already integrates the patch - awesome!!
* Using the MaxMind DB C-API (however, its not the same interface as the one I read about [http://bind-geoip.googlecode.com/files/bind-geoip-1.3-readme.txt here] - neither version 1.2 or 1.3) - this is what I'm planning to use now regardless; seems like they've got a good plan for the future regarding syntax and all that, without causing big disruptions with existing installations

#### Setting Up GeoIP DNS with BIND on [[Debian]]

Install bind9 and geoip-database:

<pre class="sh_sh">
sudo apt-get install bind9 geoip-database
</pre>

Edit the bind9 conf files (I use /etc/bind9/named.conf.zones):
<pre class="sh_sh">
view "na" {
      match-clients { country_US; };
      recursion no;
      zone "example.org" {
            type master;
            file "/etc/bind/zones/example.org.na.zone";
      };
};
view "other" {
      match-clients { any; };
      recursion no;
      zone "example.org" {
            type master;
            file "/etc/bind/zones/example.org.zone";
      };
};
</pre>

Actually, this is a little tricky, because I use BIND to manage a whole bunch of domains. If I setup a view that matches but doesn't have an entry for the requested zone, the query is refused. So, I have to have duplicates of each zone entry - even though I only need a couple of host names to respond differently to the requests.

Views can also match on the destination [[IP]]: "match-destinations", but its difficult because only one match statement needs to match to have the view get selected - and if either match-destinations or match-clients is not set, then it defaults to "any".

#### BIND9 GeoIP with Split Views

I based the above on what I read at the [http://www.zytrax.com/books/dns/ch7/view.html#match-clients Zytrax page on DNS BIND]:

<blockquote>A view clause matches when either or both of its match-clients and match-destinations statements match and when the match-recursive-only condition is met. If either or both of match-clients and match-destinations are missing they default to any (all hosts match). The match-clients statement defines the address_match_list for the source IP address of the incoming messages. Any IP which matches will use the defined view clause. This statement may only be used in a view clause.</blockquote>

The [http://www.bind9.net/manual/bind/9.3.2/Bv9ARM.ch06.html#view_statement_grammar BIND9 manual] says it differently though:

<blockquote>Each view statement defines a view of the DNS namespace that will be seen by a subset of clients. A client matches a view if its source IP address matches the address_match_list of the view's match-clients clause and its destination IP address matches the address_match_list of the view's match-destinations clause. If not specified, both match-clients and match-destinations default to matching all addresses. In addition to checking IP addresses match-clients and match-destinations can also take keys which provide an mechanism for the client to select the view. A view can also be specified as match-recursive-only, which means that only recursive requests from matching clients will match that view. The order of the view statements is significant — a client request will be resolved in the context of the first view that it matches.</blockquote>

While I don't think I'll setup GeoIP on some zones and not others on the same server, I may use the recursion only view to forward requests to unbound running on a different port to save IP addresses. ;-) This is basically what [http://packages.debian.org/sid/dnsproxy dnsproxy] does.

<pre>
view "private" {
    match-clients { 192.168.0.0/16; };
    match-recursive-only yes;
    minimal-responses yes;
    forward only;
    forwarders { 192.168.8.2; };
    allow-query { 192.168.0.0/16; };
};

view "public" {
    recursion no;
    zone "example.com" {
};
};
</pre>

See also:

* http://www.yodnsconf.com/web/2010/06/geoip-dns.html

### Errors

#### cap_set_proc failed
<pre>
bind9named: cap_set_proc failed
</pre>

Not sure about that one above...

#### named-checkzone

Need to check a zonefile? I do sometimes... and I use '''named-checkzone'''!

<pre class="sh_sh">
# named-checkzone yodnsconf.com blah.zone
zone yodnsconf.com/IN: loaded serial 2010092502
OK
</pre>

### Logging
I'm trying to reduce logging activity, but the default is to log almost everything to syslog. This is what I'm using on [[Debian]], and I had to create a /var/log/named/ folder and chown it to bind.

<pre>

logging{
  channel simple_log {
    file "/var/log/named/bind.log" versions 3 size 5m;
    severity critical;
    print-time yes;
    print-severity yes;
    print-category yes;
  };
  category default{
    simple_log;
  };
};

</pre>

I put that into the /etc/bind/named.conf.options file, after the options section.

### Alternatives
* [[PowerDNS]]
* [[NSD3]]
* [[TinyDNS]]

### See Also
* [[Unbound]]
* [[DNSMasq]]
* [[GeoIP]]
* [[YoDNSConf]]

### Links
* http://www.yodnsconf.com/
* http://www.zytrax.com/books/dns/

