Originally written April 4, 2004.

12 MONTH OUTLOOK

Give NetMar a chance ASAP. Their prices are just too good to ignore. It will be about $50 to ship the server to them, $50 to get it shipped back, the trial will run 6 months so you are taking a $110 gamble. This is affordable. The server is worth approximately $750, which could be lost, but with a contract it should be safe. $860. You wouldn’t be able to visit this location, or fix anything there.  Actually this server should probably be as inexpensive as possible, would it be feasible for under $100? SUB $300 at least. What about trust? What if they try to steal the intellectual property? Can you encrypt the software, the database, the data model? No… This solution would just be for marketing? Not for the actual service? Well, yeah I guess both. Need to copyright the design when it is finished. A lot of it is open source, so that’s not a problem.

You will have to use the server to make some serious marketing plays. You will have to buy some new suits and use your own self to market services. You also need to use mailings to market to the small business world.

You could have Verizon DSL for $200 / month if you had a server at the home office. The server would still cost you $750. For 6 months this is a cost of $1950.  There are other benefits here to be evaluated.

You could get a manager server, the cost for this is $100 / month = $600.

Rent one of the Stowe Telecom Servers for $500 / month?

What other alternatives are there?

Channel 1 Colocation?

WHAT IS THE COST OF CAPITAL FOR $750 for 6 months? 10% APR - $35! That’s pretty cheap, as opposed to putting the financial risk off on someone else for a lot more. You can manage the risks because you’ve already done the research.

Right now you don’t have a cash flow problem – you have to be aware of this!

What are your needs?
A reliable, secure web server that I can do whatever I want with! What you should probably do is take the risk with the NetMar server, it has bigger opportunities and I believe they will be fruitful.

Currently you don’t need a carrier class server, you do need an environment to do many things that can become a staging server in the future.

In one to three months you will need a carrier class system. This would be appropriate for a managed server.

The problem is that I need to have networking capabilities to sell my professional services, but I don’t trust the affordable networking services out there. We will build its own reliable network and sell it off once it is able to purchase the more reliable services.

Immediate need:
1.1U rack mount server to run: firewall, web server, MySQL database server.

Stuff you’ll probably need:
1.Firewall
2.Web Server
3.Database server
4.Backup
5.Redundancy – mirror?
6.Disaster recovery
7.Site insurance?
8.Email server
9.CVS server

Side note: how do sites figure out your connection speed and compress images using JPG automatically? Actually must be done by service provider to save bandwidth and increase download speeds.