The ability to mount an [[Encfs]] share upon [[PAM]] login would really be awesome, so of course I'm giving it a go!

<pre class="sh_sh">

$ sudo apt-get install libpam-encfs
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  libpam-encfs
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 35 not upgraded.
Need to get 12.2kB of archives.
After this operation, 90.1kB of additional disk space will be used.
Get:1 http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ lucid/universe libpam-encfs 0.1.4.1-4 [12.2kB]
Fetched 12.2kB in 0s (25.0kB/s)
Selecting previously deselected package libpam-encfs.
(Reading database ... 234539 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking libpam-encfs (from .../libpam-encfs_0.1.4.1-4_i386.deb) ...
Setting up libpam-encfs (0.1.4.1-4) ...

Bad group for maybe chgrp UNKNOWN './mtab.fuselock'
[master 0ed9247] committing changes in /etc after apt run
 Author: docunext <albert.lash@docunext.com>
 1 files changed, 18 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 security/pam_encfs.conf

</pre>

Files I edited:

* /etc/security/pam_encfs.conf
* /etc/pam.d/common-auth - actually, I didn't have to edit this.

Based on /var/log/auth.log, it doesn't seem to be even trying to mount.

Once I restored common-auth to its original state, the [[encfs]] mount worked! Yay! That is sweet. Only real issue I see is the need to use the same password for encryption as login. Not a big whoop though for what its worth.

### See Also
* [[PAM Encfs Default Configuration]]
* [[Encfs]]

