Git-wiki is a [[/Ruby]] [[/Sinatra]] web application which provides a wiki
using [[/Git]] as the backend.

### My Fork
I've forked Git-wiki on Github and have changed a couple of minor details,
like the wikilink syntax (square brackets instead of camelcase), but I have big
plans for it as its a very cool project. I'm currently using it along with
[[EncFS]] to encrypt the files in the Git repository, and along the ideas of
privacy and security.

UPDATE: I've actually started to alter git-wiki a whole lot more. I'm now using
it in concert with [[/Ikiwiki]] to publish several different wikis within
a single git repository.

#### Using Ikiwiki and Git-wiki Together
I'm able to use git-wiki with ikiwiki. I use git-wiki as the local
editor and preview system, and then I use ikiwiki to publish the wiki on my
servers. I don't use a [[/CGI]] script, as I'm pretty much the only person
editing the wikis. It was thanks to my experience with git-wiki and Grit
that I was able to convert some [[/MediaWiki]] wikis to Ikiwiki format by
writing a Ruby script called
[mediawiki2ikiwiki](http://github.com/docunext/mediawiki2gitikiwiki).

### Metadata
Git-wiki uses Grit, and while it works well, it clearly exposes the
limitations of a file system base- not much room for metadata. Currently
Git-wiki is able to create a list of all the pages in the wiki by browsing the
directory. But what about backlinks, categories, tags, and name spaces?To manage
that type of metadata, something else is required. I'm not sure what that
something is yet, but regardless, some logic on the client-side will probably
help.

#### Words that don't need to be capitalized in titles
as a an the but as if and or nor about above across after against along among
around at before behind below beneath beside between beyond but by despite down
during except for from in inside into like near of off on onto out outside over
past since through throughout till to toward under underneath until up upon with
within without
