Good old [[spam]], I mean email. Its funny, but for users, email is convenient and simple. For systems administrators, email can be incredible complicated and frustrating.

### [[My Email Services Configurations]]
I had originally included it here, but it became too big a beast.

### Protocols
* [[/email/IMAP Email]] - port 143 and 993 for tls
* [[POP Email]] - port 110 and 995 for tls
* [[SMTP Email]] - port 25 and 587

### Email Applications
#### IMAP / POP Email Servers
* [[/Courier]]
* [[/Dovecot]]
* [[dbmail]]

#### SMTP Servers
* [[/Postfix]]
* [[Qmail]]
* [[ssmtp]]
* [[nullmailer]]
* [[Exim]]

#### Email Clients
* [[Roundcube]] / [[Circlebox]]
* [[SquirrelMail]]
* [[Thunderbird]]
* [[Chandler]]
* [[Command Line SMTP Client]]
* [[/email/Mutt]]
* [[Pine]]
* [[Evolution]]

#### Mailing List Software
* [[GNU Mailman]]

#### Email [[Proxies]]
* [[Perdition]]
* [[up-imapproxy]]
* [[dkimproxy]]

#### Miscellaneous Email Software
* [[MHonArc]]
* [[Spamassassin]]
* [[spampd]]
* [[OfflineIMAP]]


### [[IMAP]] or POP3?
I use the server to store messages, and one can do so with either POP3 or IMAP.
IMAP does this natively, but it can be a little slow. With POP3, the messages
are completely downloaded and stored on a computer, in that case, I explicitly
set the POP3 client to keep the messages on the server, otherwise they will be
only stored on the computer. With that setup, the major difference is that
changes made on the client (like making new folders), won't be reflected on the
server when logging in via webmail or another IMAP client.

### Bring It Together
How do I try to get [[SMTP]], [[POP]], and [[IMAP]] servers, as well as web and
desktop clients to all get along, AND fight the good battle against [[Spam]]?
Its a good question. Here's some of my notes:

I have a few [[Postfix]] servers setup, but only one is setup to deliver mail to
user mailboxes. The others are setup as relays, for those users. In the event
the delivery server is unavailable, the relay servers can be used by clients to
send outgoing mail. In that scenario, if the POP / SMTP servers are available
even though the main SMTP server is unavailable, then the sent mail will still
get copies to the user's "Sent Messages" folder. In that case, most SMTP clients
don't play well with multi-homed SMTP hosts (one hostname with multiple A record
IP addresses), and I setup a failover with the firewall. If the client is
web-based, it might be a different story, as setting up a  failover for the
localhost doesn't make much sense. I think in that case it might make sense to
failover the web app, which would migrate the smtp server to the new machine,
but you could point the IMAP server to the primary IMAP.

### Email Problems
There are many problems associated with email:

* Lack of [[Security]]
* Limited [[Privacy]]
* [[Spam]] and [[Phishing]]
* [[Email Archival]]
* [[Large ISP Email Services]]

Still, email is incredibly convenient and widely used.

### Attachments
Email attachments are handled in an inefficient, but robust manner. Files are
first encoded using the base64 algorithm to convert the file into a very simple,
text-based format. Once the email is received by its intended recipient, the
attachment can be decoded and saved in the original format.

Email was never really designed as a file transfer mechanism, but because of its
ubiquity and convenience, its file transferring capabilities are surprisingly
good and widely used.
